<title>Modules</title>

<div id=wikitoc>
<ul>
<li>[./index.wiki|Index]</li>
<li>[./reference.wiki|Reference]</li>
</ul>
<hr style="border-style:solid">
<ul>
<li>[#overview|Overview]</li>
<li>[#sys|Sys]</li>
<li>[#jsi_opts|Jsi_Opts]</li>
<li>[#object|Programatic]</li>
<li>[#parts|Sections]</li>
<li>[#help|Help]</li>
<li>[#helplimits|Help Limitations]</li>
</ul>
</div>

<h3 id=overview>Overview</h3>

A Jsi module is code that:

  *  can be invoked from the command-line, accepting arguments and switches, or
  *  can be called programatically by other modules as a [./packages.wiki|package].
  *  can display it's available options when called with <b>-h</b>.

Here is an example module <a href=../js-demos/fileSize.jsi>./fileSize.jsi</a>:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
#!/usr/bin/env jsish
<b>require</b>(<i>'Sys'</i>); <i>// Optional</i>
<b>function fileSize(fargs:array|string=void, opts:object=void)</b> {

    <b>var options =</b> { <i>// Count bytes in files</i>
        debug       :false, <i>// Debug output</i>
        max         :10     <i>// Max number of files</i>
    };
    <b>var that =</b> {
        package:<i>'fileSize'</i>, <i>// Note: "package" is used by Jsi_Opts to support "-h".</i>
        cnt:0
    };
    
    <b>function</b> getLength(fargs:array|string) {
        if (typeof fargs === <i>'string'</i>)
            fargs = [fargs];
            
        for (var i in fargs) {
            if (i>=that.max) break;
            if (that.debug)
                puts('Count: '+fargs[i]);
            that.cnt += File.size(fargs[i]);
        }
        <b>return</b> that.cnt;
    }

    <b>Jsi_Opts(that, options, opts)</b>;
    
    if (fargs)
        <b>return</b> getLength(fargs);
        
    that.getLength = getLength; <i>// Return object-command</i>
    <b>return</b> that;
}

<b>provide</b>(<i>'fileSize'</i>);

if (<b>Info.isMain</b>()) {
    puts(<b>Jsi_Main</b>(<i>'fileSize'</i>));
}

</pre></nowiki>


Invoked as:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
./fileSize.jsi -debug true file1 file2 file3
</pre></nowiki>

Leading switches are passed in <b>opts</b> with
the remaining arguments in <b>fargs</b>.

Note that options coming in from the command-line must
be primitives.

<hr>

<h3 id=sys>Sys</h3>

The <b>Sys</b> package comprises the scripts zipped to the end of the <b>jsish</b>
executable that implement command-line option/utilities such as the debugger
and <b>Jsi_Opts</b>.

<b>Sys</b> may be explicitly loaded with:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>require</b>(<i>'Sys'</i>);
</pre></nowiki>

However, this is completely optional as the code therein implicitly
loads on-demand.


<hr>

<h3 id=jsi_opts>Jsi_Opts</h3>

<b>Jsi_Opts</b> is the option parser responsible processing options from <b>opts</b>
validating them against <b>options</b>, and assigning them to <b>that</b>.

From the command-line <b>Jsi_Main</b> does the marshelling of arguments.

<hr>

<h3 id=object>Programatic</h3>

Calling a module with no arguments causes it to just return <b>that</b>.
This allows the it to be called programatically:

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
<b>require</b>(<i>'fileSize'</i>);
<b>var</b> fcmd = fileSize();
fcmd.getLength(<i>'Makefile'</i>);
fcmd.getLength([<i>'a','b'</i>]);
puts(fcmd.cnt);
</pre></nowiki>


<hr>
<h3 id=parts>Sections</h3>

The 7 parts of a module are:

    <table border='1' class=cmdstbl>
<tr><th>Section</th> <th>Description</th> </tr>
<tr><td>function</td> <td>
All code is wrapped in a function with the same name as the file basename, providing
bindings for incoming arguments.
</td><tr>
<tr><td>options</td> <td>The <b>var options =</b> object itemizes the all options that can come in via
the <b>opts</b> parameter.</td><tr>
<tr><td>that</td> <td>Local object state is stored in the <b>that</b> object.
All defined and incoming options will be copied into <b>that</b>.</td><tr>
<tr><td>Jsi_Opts</td><td>The call <b>Jsi_Opts(that, options, opts)</b> performs option parsing
as well as implementing <b>-h</b> help output</td><tr>
<tr><td>provide</td><td>The <b>provide</b> statement makes the module available as a package.</td><tr>
<tr><td>Info.isMain</td> <td>The <b>Info.isMain()</b> command returns true if the current file was the
one invoked from the command-line.</td><tr>
<tr><td>Jsi_Main</td> <td>
The <b>Jsi_Main()</b> command parses command-line options and then invokes the current module.</td><tr>
</table>

<hr>

<h3 id=help>Help</h3>

Help is available for a module by calling it with the single argument <b>-h</b>

    <nowiki><pre class=verbatim>
/fileSize.jsi <b>-h</b>
/zvfs/lib/JsiUtil.jsi:121: error: throw: 
Count bytes in files

Options/defaults:
    -debug      0       // Debugging level
    -max        10      // Max number of files

ERROR
</pre></nowiki>

<hr>

<h3 id=helplimits>Help Limitations</h3>

Help information gets extracted from <b>options</b> by <b>Jsi_Opts</b>, with the following limitations:

  *  The package name will be extracted from the file base name, except when:
  *  <b>that.package</b> can be set to help locate the source files.
  *  All comments must use the <b>//</b> form.
  *  The first comment (which must be after the opening <b>{</b>) is the help title.
  *  There can be no closing <b>}</b> anywhere in the body of the options or comments.
  
